docs(tutorials): update gitlab instant app (#2183)
scaleway/docs-content: tutorials/gitlab-instant-app/index.mdx

  - You have [configured your SSH key](/console/my-project/how-to/create-ssh-key/)
</Message>

> GitLab serves as a web-based manager for Git repositories, offering features like wikis and issue tracking. It provides a myriad of functionalities, including management of git repositories, code reviews, issue tracking, and wikis, among others.

Reviewer: I am under the impression that these two sentences repeat themselves a bit, don't they?

Author: Agreed.

> GitLab serves as a web-based manager for Git repositories, offering features like wikis and issue tracking. It provides a myriad of functionalities, including management of git repositories, code reviews, issue tracking, and wikis, among others.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
GitLab is a web-based manager for Git repositories that offers a variety of functionalities, such as code reviews, wikis and issue tracking.
```

> Scaleway offers a GitLab image which is based on Ubuntu 22.04 LTS (Jammy Jellyfish) and incorporates GitLab 16.3.3. By default, this image supports [routed IPs](/compute/instances/api-cli/using-routed-ips/).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Scaleway offers a GitLab image based on Ubuntu 22.04 LTS (Jammy Jellyfish) and incorporates GitLab 16.3.3. By default, this image supports [routed IPs](/compute/instances/api-cli/using-routed-ips/).
```

> ## Creating the GitLab Instance

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
## Creating a GitLab Instance
```

1. Click **Instances** in the **Compute** section of the side menu. The Instance creation page displays.
2. Click **Create an Instance**. The Instance creation wizard displays.
3. Choose the Availability Zone for your Instance.
4. Select the Instance type you want to create.
5. Select the **GitLab** image in the **InstantApps** tab.
    <Lightbox src="scaleway-instantapp-gitlab.webp" alt="" />
6. Add storage volumes to your Instance.
7. Enter a name and optional tags for your Instance.
8. Click **Create Instance** to launch your GitLab Instance.

<Message type="tip">
  For detailed information about Instance creation, refer to the [create an Instance](/compute/instances/how-to/create-an-instance/) documentation.
</Message>

## Configuring GitLab

> 1. Login to your Instance using SSH.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
1. Log in to your Instance using SSH.
```

2. You find your GitLab password in the `MOTD` when you login to your Instance.
    ```
    #################### GITLAB ####################
    Gitlab version 16.3.3 is installed.
    Getting started with: https://www.scaleway.com/docs/how-to-use-the-gitlab-instant-apps.

    By default, the Gitlab administrator user is created with a random password.
    If the username and the password haven't been changed manually, either via UI or via command line,
    the default credentials are:
    - user: root
    - password: Fh8cD+xJkgrCYXeXaLdx5SsjpJv5nrPxG5CIbONELJA=

    To access the GitLab web interface, open http://fe8495d0-29c9-4c63-a5bb-38f524d07b1d.pub.instances.scw.cloud in your browser.
    Once connected, we strongly advise you to change your password by going in user settings page: http://fe8495d0-29c9-4c63-a5bb-38f524d07b1d.pub.instances.scw.cloud/-/profile/password/edit

    You can hide this message for the next connections by deleting the /etc/update-motd.d/70-gitlab file.
    ################################################
    ```

> 3. Open the GitLab web interface in a web browser by copy/pasting the URL shown in the MOTD, or the Instances IP address in your browsers navigation bar. GitLab's login screen displays.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
3. Access GitLab's web interface by copy/pasting the URL from the MOTD or the Instance's IP address into your browser's navigation bar. GitLab's login screen displays.
```

> 4. Login using the user `root` and the password shown in the MOTD of your Instance.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
4. Log in using the user `root` and the password shown in the MOTD of your Instance.
```

5. Change your password by accessing the URL shown in the MOTD above for security reasons.
6. Remove the MOTD file from your Instance
    ```
    rm /etc/update-motd.d/70-gitlab
    ```

## Configuring Let's Encrypt

GitLab can automatically fetch and renew [let's encrypt](https://letsencrypt.org/) certificates. Follow this [tutorial from the official GitLab documentation](https://docs.gitlab.com/omnibus/settings/ssl.html#lets-encrypt-integration).

> ## Opening the mail ports to send e-mails

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
## Opening the mail ports to send emails
```

<Message type="note">
  In order to prevent spam, our infrastructure does not allow access to remote mail ports by default. However, since GitLab requires the ability to send emails, yoh have to enable access to these ports. Your account needs to undergo a validation proces before you can enable the SMTP ports. [Learn more about identiy verification](/console/my-account/how-to/verify-identity).
</Message>

> 1. Click the **Security groups** tab in the Instances overview page.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
1. Click the **Security groups** tab on the Instances overview page.
```

    ```
3. Access GitLab's web interface by copy/pasting the URL from the MOTD or the Instance's IP address into your browser's navigation bar. GitLab's login screen displays.
4. Log in using the user `root` and the password shown in the MOTD of your Instance.
5. Change your password by accessing the URL shown in the MOTD above for security reasons.
6. Remove the MOTD file from your Instance
    ```
    rm /etc/update-motd.d/70-gitlab
    ```

## Configuring Let's Encrypt

GitLab can automatically fetch and renew [let's encrypt](https://letsencrypt.org/) certificates. Follow this [tutorial from the official GitLab documentation](https://docs.gitlab.com/omnibus/settings/ssl.html#lets-encrypt-integration).

## Opening the mail ports to send emails

<Message type="note">
  In order to prevent spam, our infrastructure does not allow access to remote mail ports by default. However, since GitLab requires the ability to send emails, you must enable access to these ports. Your account needs to undergo a validation process before you can enable the SMTP ports. [Learn more about identity verification](/console/my-account/how-to/verify-identity).
</Message>

> 1. Click the **Security groups** tab on the Instances overview page.

Reviewer 3: On line 87, can we just say "Instances" instead of "Virtual Cloud Instances"?
